OK so now that we've set up our key and submitted our AP K to Google Play we're going to see how to
do a similar thing for submitting to the iOS App Store.
So just like with Android we need to create a key and like with Android we need to pay some money to
do that as well.
Apple charge $99 a year to be part of the developer program and you will need to pay that if you want
to put your apps on the App Store.
So assuming you want to do that we start at the iOS provisioning portal which allows us to provision
our apps for iOS so do a quick google for that and then click there.
If you're not already signed in then you'll be asked to sign in there and if you're not already a registered
developer you need to create an account and pay the $99.
But once you've gone through that process you'll get to this page and you'll need to click certificates
then click plus to create a new certificate.
And we want an app store production certificate to put it on the App Store.
And then click continue and then we'll need a CSR file.
Now you can create these on a PC but it's a very complex process and I wouldn't recommend it.
Essentially if you want to be developing iOS apps even HDMI based ones I'd strongly recommend getting
a Mac.
It makes your life a lot easier.
So here I'm only going to show you the instructions on a Mac.
But if you Google something like create iOS provisioning profile on a PC you will get instructions on
how to do it.
But I warn you it's not fun.
So we can follow the instructions here.
We need the key chain Access app.
So I'd just use command space to get spotlight up and then start I can keep an Access and that will
give you a bunch of keys that are stored on your device.
And as you can see here we want to Ki-Chan access significant assistent request a certificate for my
certificate of authority.
So let's do that key chain access if get assistant request certificate from a certificate authority
and then you can put in your e-mail address that
common name and e-mail address again and I'd recommend using save to this kid.
But you can e-mail it to yourself if you prefer.
And I'm going to leave they specify keep the information blank and then we can just save it right there
on the desktop
that will then save the certificate request.
So I clicked on back over to the apple developer site then click continue and then choose File and we'll
choose the file that we just created click open and then generate and then download.
So now we've created an iOS distribution certificate.
Now we need to create our provisioning profile.
So I'm going to hold down the back button and go back to certificates identifiers and profiles and that
will take me to here.
And this time I want to go to provisioning profiles and once again I want to create a new one and this
is going to be an app store distribution certificate.
Click Continue.
And we need to have an app ID able to create a provisioning profile.
So I'm just going to control click on app IDs over here and open that up in a new tab and then we're
going to create a new app ID
and I'll just call it email by Rob again
and here we need to specify the app ID.
Now we set this up in the previous video when we were setting things up for Android.
It's the same as the package name there so conduct code says dot whatever you want to call your app.
That's how bad.
And then we don't need any of these special services.
But if you did you could select them then and then continue and submit that then creates our Heidi.
So I click on and now we go back over to our provisioning profile page refresh that's And let's just
select that again distribution AppStore.
And we should now be able to select that we get email app by Rob
continue and then choose the certificate that we just created.
So for me that's this one will last for a year and then continue at a profile name.
I'm just going to use the app name then and then generate.
And then we can download that's provisioning Prairieville
lovely nearly there.
We now need the certificate and key bundle which we create in key chain access and we do that by clicking
file and import items and then we import the certificate that we've just created.
And you should be able to find it by its expiry date.
So first of March 2017 for me and then we control click on that and export.
So finally we can say that as our 12 file on the desktop as well.
And again
a nice password that you'll remember will not be easily guessable to protect that.
And then I'm just going to enter my machine password.
So we now have all the files that we need to upload the phone get build.
So we scroll back up Click on our profile at the top there and edit accounts and then we click signing
keys.
And just as we did with Android we're going to add a key for iOS.
It's title.
I'll just put the name of the app.
So email in fact e-mail is key.
Why not.
And then we need the 12 file.
There it is.
And we need the provisioning profile as well.
So that's the mobile provision file
OK submit those keys.
And once again we're going to need to unlock them.
So you put in the password that you entered for.
These are difficult.
And then if that works should be unlocked.
Then we go back to the apps
and just as we did for Android we click on the app name and we select our key and we wait and hope that
this is all going to work and that we'll be able to download our file and it is wonderful.
So instead of an AP K we get an IP file for working with us.
So I'm going to download that again to my desktop.
Now all that remains is to submit to the App Store.
So let's open up a new tab to do that and we do that in an app a Web site called iTunes Connect.
So I choose connect dot apple dot com and again you'll need to have a page developer account to be able
to access this.
But if you've got one you should be able to get in here.
And then we're just going to create a new app on iTunes Connect and upload the file that we've just
downloaded over to my apps and then plus to create a new app
again I'll call it email app by Rob unlady.
We should be able to choose the bundle ID because we've already created it.
There it is email by rope from primary language English.
And then the S-K you hear is the app ID.
So it will select that again.
I didn't make any mistakes.
And then don't forget to select iOS and then click Create
it again.
So as with Android there's a bunch of information that you should fill in about your app there and you
can click features and you can select pricing and availability information there as well.
But the bit that we're interested in is the prepare for submission.
And here is again where you put your screenshots description keywords et cetera et cetera.
But the main thing for us is the build.
So you'd normally use X code if you were making a native app we're going to use application loader 3.0.
So that or download the application loader app to your computer which is what we'll use to upload the
IP file that phone get build created for us.
And once that's done I put up the downloaded file which will install application load for us.
Double click on application later dot package install and see your password and this will then go through
the installation process for the application to load up
so close that down.
And then I'm going to use command space to open up spotlight's and then we should find application loader
in applications agree to the temporary conditions put in your
Apple ID and Password keep yourself signed in.
And then this will sign you into iTunes Connect and we want to deliver our app so let's choose that
then we select our IPA file that we downloaded.
And then it would link that to the application by the you that is the conduct co-star's to email client
by Rob in my case.
So then click next and then it will upload to iTunes Connect for us.
Once again keep your fingers crossed.
And we have some warnings there but that should be OK.
We can add the icon files in iTunes Connect.
So just click next and then done and then if we refresh the page here.
We should see the app as being uploaded.
Well that can take a little while so we might not be able to see that here.
We don't have the build quite yet but that can take an hour or so from here it's just a matter of adding
your screen shots descriptions et cetera et cetera and then submitting for review usually takes about
10 days for your first apt to get reviewed.
And with any luck it will be successful and you'll be on the store.
I've now waited about 10 minutes and I received an email from iTunes Connect saying that the processing
has completed and if we now scroll down to build you can see it says select to build before you submit
your app and then you can choose that built that was uploaded.
Obviously we want to update the icon there and click done.
And that's your build.
So from there it really is just a matter of filling in the various images and description etc. before
submitting your app for review.
So congratulations if you manage to follow along and create all of the various different provisioning
profiles and certificates and that brings us to the end of this section.
So you now know how to make both Front-End and backend sections for a mobile app as well as how to package
that as HVM LCS s and javascript files and then use phone get built to repackage it again for all the
different obstacles and I've shown you specifically how to work with iOS and Android processes for the
other app stores are fairly straightforward as well.
So I hope you've enjoyed the section I'll go off and make the next viral app.